[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Wisenthal
>> and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy, I was at a
uh my cousin's wedding this weekend and
I have a lot of uh lawyers in my family
and every time I didn't know that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. In my extended family, a lot
of lawyers in there
>> and I'm always asking them like what
they do and stuff. Within like 5 seconds
of any conversation, I'm like tell me
about trials and like techniques like
sway the jury and etc. The stuff I see
on TV. I am aware though that that is
actually not that big of a part of many
lawyers like day-to-day. Mhm. Well, uh I
have a lawyer in my family too, an ex-
lawyer, uh my husband,
>> uh who did big law, big corporate law,
absolutely hated it and got out of it,
um luckily. And so I have a feeling in
this particular episode, I'm just going
to ask a lot of work life balance
questions based on my own experience, my
husband's experience. Yeah. But it is a
huge industry and it's one of those
industries that I think all financial
journalism actually doesn't do a good
job of covering along with accounting.
So we should talk about it.
>> We definitely should talk about it. We
should talk about it way more than uh we
do within the AI conversation
specifically. You hear a lot about the
prospects of this being either like a
force multiplier or a labor reducer
because my understanding is that a lot
of like especially like junior lawyers,
they're up all night. What are they like
looking for misplaced commas? Because
those could be a big deal in contracts,
right? And so in theory, and again
Tracy, I'm sure you know way more about
this than I do, but in theory that sort
of seems like something AI might be good
at like, oh no, if the comma is not here
and it's there, then that totally
changes the definition of this clause or
whatever. There's a famous case
involving a comma that did exactly that.
Um, so many points to make here. First
of all, I am vastly in favor of anything
that makes corporate lawyers lives uh
slightly more efficient and happier. So
AI could be useful here. But I also
wonder, you know, the lawyer profession,
they have things like templates and
standard forms and stuff like that. So I
also wonder how much of an improvement
AI will be here. So I'm excited to talk
about it. You know that Tracy, when they
get the AI tools really in place,
they're just going to give them more
work because they're like, "Well, AI,
>> that's what I suspect."
>> Yeah. Yeah. No one's actually.
>> By the way, I have a lot of stories of
like partners calling from their fishing
boats on the weekend demanding that
junior lawyers go into the office and
like fix a comma and things like that.
>> All right. Well, I'm really excited to
say we do have the perfect guest,
someone that I've known for a very long
time, someone who just knows about a lot
of stuff, someone who is a lawyer. We
are going to be speaking with Joel
Worerheimer. He's uh currently at
Worheimer Fleer LLP, a civil rights uh
firm here in New York City. He is
previously at the White House. He's done
big law in the past. He knows a lot
about a lot of stuff. He knows a lot
about poker. He knows a lot about AI.
Someone I think we could just talk to
about anything. He knows a lot about
elections. He just sort of knows
everything. Uh Joel, thank you so much
for coming on OddLots. Thrilled to have
you here.
>> Thank you for having me. Um, why don't
you real quickly tell us like who you
are? What do you do? Why are we talking
to you?
>> I run my own civil rights law firm. I
just partnered up. And we sue the
government mostly uh for violations of
civil rights. Sometimes that's false
arrest or wrongful convictions. Uh
sometimes that's wrongful removals of of
kids in let's say child services for a
shaken baby. That was a false
accusation. That sort of thing. And we
try to get people compensation for the
wrongs of their constitutional rights.
That's about 80% of what we do.
>> Personal question. Are civil/criminal
lawyers are they happier than corporate
lawyers?
>> I would say on average, sure, but the
distribution is probably pretty wide for
each,
>> you know, I look, I do think on the the
nice thing on the plaintiff side and as
like I'm my own boss. I get to, you
know, determine how much I work and each
extra case is just more money or less
money if I if I decide not to take it.
And so I can sort of set my own work
life balance when I do that, you know,
and I'm it's it's constantly a decision
of sort of what's the expected value of
a case and and is it worth it to me in
terms of the hours I have to put in.
>> So let's talk about when you were at uh
big law and you know I joked that you
know people they're up at 1:00 a.m. and
they're looking at commas. I know that's
a little bit of an exaggeration, but I
No, it's not. It really isn't.
>> Yeah, I guess it's not. And I know that
uh lawyers are really obsessed with
billable hours, and I think they even
like measure things in 10-minute
increments, like so six minute
increments.
>> If you're a junior associate or you
enter a law firm, whatever. What is the
modal use of your time? What are you
mostly doing when you're clocking those
six-minute increments?
>> Right. So it's going to I'm I can only
really speak to litigation because you
know corporate you're I think just
reviewing
>> contracts and deal points constantly.
For litigator
>> a lot of your your time is in discovery
and that's true small law big law but
you are reviewing documents
uh synthesizing what they say. Maybe
you're trying to do a privilege check
and say okay this document we can't turn
over. You know that's changed some
actually with machine learning. The
predictive coding has shrunk the amount
of time that you know junior associates
are spent doing that. Legal research
fights with opposing council. You need
to give us these documents. You're
saying they're privileged. They're not
privileged. That sort of thing.
>> And then there's the smaller section on
taking depositions, you know, briefing
things to court. So that's a very broad
overview of those six minute increments.
And yes, editing and reviewing and
looking for hanging commas, you know,
hanging headers. That was always the
bane of my existence was forgetting that
there was a hanging header and getting
yelled at for it.
>> That sounds bad. You know the economics
of a big law firm. It feels like this
very big pyramid structure which I think
is replicated in many industries around
the world probably in finance to some
extent and then uh I think even academia
to some extent. But talk to us a little
bit about like how that value acrus to
the entire firm and the partners and the
distribution of the uh the fees that the
clients are paying,
>> right? So you have what they call uh
leverage in a law firm. So you have
equity partners, some firms have equity
partners and income partners who don't
actually own a share of the firm, but
the partners are trying to get leverage
on the associates. a one partner to say
four associate ratio. All of the big law
firms uh basically pay the exact same
amount to their associates. This is
called the crevath scale. If you you can
you can look it up and it'll say a
thirdyear associate makes $250,000
and gets this bonus each year. Let's
just say for for uh the average
associate bills $700 an hour and is
expected to bill about 2,000 hours a
year. So they're they're generating 1.4
million for the firm in revenue in terms
of build out and they're getting paid uh
I'd say with taxes and and everything
500,000. So the partners are making
$900,000 for every extra associate. So
if you have a 4 to1 leverage n you know
uh 900,000 profits per partner 3.6
million. And that's how they're trying
to think of it. And the the big
partners, the rain makers are the ones
who can generate enough work to support
those associates. Got it. Uh and if you
can't support those associates, your
leverage goes down, your profits go
down, you might have to lay people off,
that sort of thing.
>> It's nice to be a partner at big law.
But on that note, so my understanding at
least in corporate law is that it is
harder to make partner nowadays than it
used to be. And this is part of the
reason why it's a miserable experience
because it used to be in the past, you
know, you work really really hard,
basically give up your life for like two
decades or whatever and then you get
rewarded with a huge salary and you
don't have to do as much of the grunt
work. Your job is basically sourcing
deals and making the intros and stuff
like that. Do you get that impression as
well on your side?
>> I definitely see from the outside that
it seems harder to make partner. I think
that's led to people more people leaving
earlier to do their own firms. I think
it's easier than ever to start your own
firm. And so
>> why is that?
>> I mean, for one, I mean, for me, for
example, I didn't need an office when I
started. I started in January of 2021. I
had a desk at a, you know, at another
law firm that collected mail. I think
the number of services are just easier
to access. even things like you know now
if you really wanted to like cut you
could start with a cheaper uh legal
research service than than Weslaw things
like that I think and you've seen it in
the in the business creation numbers I
think you see a lot of professional
services you know splitting off from
firms but I definitely think it's harder
to make partner they have had that
they've added this income partner level
so you make partner but you're not an
equity member of the firm um I think
>> consolation prize
>> that's right and and you get to shop the
title I think is the other reason you
know so let's say you want to go
in-house somewhere now you're a partner
at this firm and you can say you're a
partner at the firm even if you haven't
bought in but I think that structure has
been around longer honestly it feels
like the same thing it's in academia
it's harder to get tenure now it's a it
just the the ladder's getting pulled up
I guess in in these sort of industries
[Music]
would anyone go into a big law firm if
they knew in advance that they wouldn't
make partner like there's so like the
angel of the future comes to them in a
dream and says you know what you're not
going to make partner would that still
be worthwhile or is the prospect even if
it's declining of making partner like is
that crucial towards that decision if
you knew in advance you weren't going to
make it would anyone make that decision
>> so they do have staff attorneys at big
law firms that are people who are not on
partner track
>> okay
>> and
>> and those are fine careers
>> and they're fine careers I think people
you know but they also have less
expectation of how much they're going to
to work. You typically wouldn't do it.
And the reason they have this upper out
sort of system at the big law firms uh
is because the prospect of being partner
drives you to 2,2500 hours how many it
is. You're showing how
>> the light at the end of the tunnel,
right?
>> That's right. So, you know, I think
look, the training is really good. The
cases are really interesting. like I I
actually quite enjoyed some of it, but
that pressure to to bill and work is is
you probably wouldn't want that
>> when you say training like you know I
don't like what's the deal like in law
school you don't even learn about any of
the things you actually do as a lawyer
>> you you certainly learn you know how to
think about the law but you're not
learning in the and you have a legal
>> I think this is actually important for
the AI component of like okay what is
how do you actually learn to be a lawyer
if you don't really do it in law school
and then you know AI is going to take
over more and more of these functions
like the pro where do you learn right
>> so what is the learning
>> so here's an example you don't learn how
to have uh a dispute about discovery in
law school okay you know I I sent out
discovery demands you owe me documents
right under in the American system of
law somebody you get you end up in a
lawsuit and each side is obligated to
exchange documents with each other and
you you send out demands and and you ask
for a certain category of documents and
they come back and say, "We're not going
to give them to you. That request was
overly burdensome or they're not
relevant
>> or they say they lost them
>> or they say they they lost them." And
you have to have a fight about getting
the documents, what keys, what keywords
did you search, who did you collect
documents from, all of those sorts of
things. And how to have that dispute,
how to make the request so you don't get
the the denial, those sorts of things.
and what the writing looks like and
feels like you just don't get in in law
school. You just the and and even
writing a brief and what's a persuasive
brief you the edits those sorts of
things you you learn how to do legal
writing but it's just you can't do it
until you're doing it.
>> Got it.
>> Okay. So on that note, I mean AI seems
possibly most at home replicating the
work done by say a mildly competent
maybe not too tired junior associate and
historically you do that work for many
years and you build foundational skills
of being a lawyer like attention to
detail and issue spotting and I guess
risk triage and that sort of thing. If
those tasks, those formational tasks are
now outsourced to AI, what do you see as
the impact on junior lawyers?
>> It's a great question. I think it's
going to be hard for junior lawyers at
big law firms uh to get their their sort
of that training. On the other hand, it
may just be that they are doing more
work and so on the same things but more
efficiently. Maybe they're they're now
going to have more uh fights about
documents uh and less time spending
reviewing the documents. Maybe they can
increase the volume of things they
demand, that sort of thing. I certainly
think that the the leverage model is and
the build our model is going to run into
some difficulty. It'll also make their
lives easier just in terms of, you know,
as an example, you get discovery
requests. I talk about discovery a lot
because it's truly like a lot of the
work of being a lawyer. But they come,
you know, the other side will send you a
PDF with a bunch of demands and then
you've got to respond to the demands.
And even just the the moment where you
have to convert the PDF into a word
document and start editing the work word
document is like the true bane of my
existence. And I've actually started
using this AI program. It's called
briefpoint AI
>> and and they it's also very templated,
right? So you're constantly trying to
find templates. Hey, other associate in
this law firm, can you send me, you
know, a previous document now? I can
they have, you know, 80 different
objections that you're used to making
and they convert them and it's a lot
more point-and-click. And of course, you
have to know what you're doing when
you're, you know, that these objections
are valid, but just the document
formatting and getting it through, you
know, and it look to to look good and
and not have to fight with Microsoft
Word for 3 hours is really valuable.
>> I realize I should have asked this
earlier, but when we say AI, what does
that actually entail in the legal field?
Because as you point out, I mean,
templates, standard forms, those sort of
things have been around forever and a
lot of law firms already use template
software to quickly duplicate work or
make document packages or whatever. So,
when we talk about AI in law, what
exactly would that be?
>> I think it can be a lot of things. One,
it can be making that template process a
lot faster and uh, you know, that will
free up labor time for sure. the you
know JT GPT's 03 Pro is doing legal
research now that is quite excellent
>> this is really important people who
think that this that 03 is dumb or is a
hallucination machine are not or that
CHBT is have not used 03
>> that's that's my view and you know
there's this professor at uh Georgetown
I think his uh name is Danny Wiltown
who's just sort of every time a new
model has been coming out has been
running sort of exam questions that he
gives to his students. I think it's in
his federal courts class about, you
know, how how they do on each of these
questions. And when 03 came out, not
even 03 pro, when 03 came out, it was uh
it it answered them all, some of them
excellently, and even got what he it was
it's called an issue spotter question.
So, it wasn't on the face of the
question. It was an appellet
jurisdiction question. If you really
were thinking hard about it as a
student, you would have noticed this
issue that he wasn't asking about
explicitly, but there might not have
been jurisdiction to even bring the
appeal that he prompted you about. And
03 caught that. And when I've used it,
you know, you hear a lot of these cases,
you lawyers getting sanctioned because
they're, you know, submitting things
with hallucinated cases. And
>> there's some funny examples of that.
>> They're they're amazing. And the thing I
think to myself is you would never
submit as a as a partner at a law firm.
You'd never submit whatever the junior
associate just turned over to you.
Sometimes they didn't understand the
case exactly right. And so you're that's
the job is is checking the cases.
Shepherizing is the is the I think the
Lexus term for it. And and making sure
the cases stand for what they say that
there's still valid precedent. That's
the job of being a lawyer. And now I can
rely on 03 to start some of the research
for me. Fi point me even just to point
me to the cases and it's citing to the
cases. And this is without access to
Bloomberg Law or or Thompson Reuters or
anything like that. I assume it's coming
and and once it's going to be integrated
with those databases of cases. Right now
it's just trollling the the internet. Um
I think it's going to do a fantastic
job. And you spend so much time as a
lawyer, as a litigator, thinking of the
boolean search terms for Lexus, the and
or these sorts of things and and you
don't know the exact term that's going
to come up in the case. You know what
the all of the president use this term?
Uh and
>> not having to think about that. I can
run it in the background as I'm doing
another task and for 20 minutes and
something comes back from 03, it's got
the five cases that I need to to dig in
and find the the right,
>> you know, language to then go on Lexus
and then to to chase it down.
>> I've been using 03 more for just sort of
my own like intellectual questions from
time to time.
>> Your own lawsuits? No, I haven't uh done
any uh I haven't started any lawsuits
yet, but this is really the way that
I've been using it, which is that it's a
fantastic tool for just like discovering
the re the existing research that's out
there. I was looking at something I was
curious about like trade barriers within
China between provinces, you know,
something like that. There is a lot of
research that's been done on the
question of like, okay, if each of these
provinces has some motivation to promote
their champions, is there any tension?
There's something I would have it found
all of this uh all it it had the links
to the academic research that's been
about it. It had summaries of them. The
summaries may have been wrong, but I'm
not in the pos I'm not going to like
copy and paste summaries and present it
as my work. I could click on it most of
the time. It is they are pretty correct.
>> It's so what you say in terms of like
just even like being able to find the
relevant case law etc. seems extremely
powerful and time-saving. It's truly
been life-changing for me. I and and I
like doing legal research. I like
getting into the cases, but just, you
know, if there's a new issue and and you
just don't know where to start,
>> you know, that's that was always, I
think, for a junior associate, where do
I start? And I think it will make their
life easier in that regard, even if it
might also make their lives, you know,
hard.
[Music]
Okay. Uh, timesaving, making associates
lives easier. That sounds great. Um,
from a personal perspective, but what
does that actually mean for billable
hours? Because of course, the whole
business model seems to rely on eking
out as much work, as many billable hours
as possible, right? And that includes
grunt work, which theoretically could be
done by AI now. And I'm not sure big law
or any law is going to be necessarily
incentivized to uh to use AI if it means
a reduction in billable hours. I suppose
they could make it up in volume. Maybe
that's that's the idea. They can take on
more cases. But is is that the
expectation?
>> They might be able to make it up in
volume. I do think things like they call
them, you know, ultim al alternate fee
arrangements are going to become more
popular. we get a flat fee of, let's
say, $5 million to do this deal for you
or something like that.
>> And then you're incentivized to do it in
the fewest hours possible. That's right.
Keep going.
>> Um, so so that's one possibility that
the the model just changes. The billable
hour, it stops being the model. The
other thing is, you know, the way it
works right now is I it's been a while
for me. So, you know, the big partners,
let's say they're they're billing out at
$2,000 an hour or $1,500 an hour and and
the associates are $700 an hour. I think
in a lot of ways what the client is
paying for is the is really like $5,000
an hour for the partner and and 400 or
300 for the associate and but it just
gets build out se differently
>> and I think one thing is that partners
might just acrue a lot more of the value
with fewer associates they still have
the build hours they're just a lot more
efficient and you know in particular I
think for general councils who are
hiring at The big law firms, they're
hiring for safety. You know, nobody ever
got fired for hiring Crevath. It's sort
of like a way to to think about this or
a big law firm. If something goes wrong,
you want to have hired the best lawyer
you could and say to your board or your
CEO, look, I hired a great law firm and
and they just they just missed it, but
look, this is everybody agrees this is a
great law firm. Which is all to just say
that I think one possibility here is the
build hour remains but all the value
acrru to the to the the top top lawyers.
>> I mean that seems like it'll have
implications. We should talk about that
further. Something I have done is I'll
take episodes transcripts of oddlot and
afterwards I'll do a little
self-criticism session where I'll like
say like where could we have pressed
this? Uh where were the weaknesses in
the guest's answer? where should we have
pressed further and harder? What were
some of the logical flaws? What would
you have done differently, etc. And
sometimes I found that to be useful.
Have you been able to use AI for
essentially like building better
arguments or finding weaknesses in an
argument or anything like that yet?
>> I haven't done that yet. I'm sure I
will. I have used it for taking audio
and making it into transcripts. I mean,
that's just like a foundational thing
for me. Yeah, prison will produce an
audio of
>> a hearing or something like that and I
need the transcript and I need to like
just read it instead of listening to it
for 40 minutes. But self-criticism,
>> but yeah, but it also it does sound like
you mentioned the issue spotter question
like like actually being able to
identify real legal questions,
>> not just identify precedent.
>> Yeah. Not just identify precedent, but
actually logical sequences or where like
it sounds like that's where you're
getting at. I'm sure it is coming and I
think as I um you know get as as the
models get better and I have to produce
a brief and and maybe I can start
running it through. Of course lawyers
all have huge confidentiality concerns
with everything they do. So I'm very
careful about what I'm putting into GPT
u you know and
>> you got to run your own DeepSk instance.
I think that that's right. And I think
the big law firms are having sort of
servers on site with their own models,
but those models aren't as good as 03
yet. And so I think as you can start to
have great models inhouse on your own
servers, that's going to really be the
the thing that that launches it. I can't
do that cuz it's just me and and I'm not
going to host a server farm. But I do
know right the new Apple chips on these
very nice the newest they can run you
know things like llama very well and so
it's coming. Uh but but I think for the
top models I'm sort of reluctant to put
everything up there.
>> That makes sense.
>> This is exactly what I was going to ask
next which is how do clients feel about
AI in the legal industry? Because I
imagine, you know, nobody ever got fired
for hiring Crevath, as you mentioned, or
some other magic circle law firm. But on
the other hand, if Kvath is now using
AI, I imagine on the client side, maybe
there's some concern over having their
material contracts or employee data or
financing documents or whatever getting
uploaded to off-site servers. And then
there's also the question of what if AI
just makes a mistake? Although as you
pointed out, no partner would ever
submit something um done by a junior
associate without actually reviewing it
first. So maybe that's not as much of an
issue. But are there any um qualms I
guess coming from the client side that
you see? So I I can't speak to the big
law as much anymore and it's it's very
different I think on my side and I think
you know my my clients are their qualms
are are much sort of bigger in terms of
privacy and and much more you know
focused on on the government and and are
wanting to get just the best
representation they can. So but for
example I'm getting medical records from
my clients a lot. That's a lot of the
job of a plaintiff side lawyer is
documenting injuries, thing like things
like that. And they're certainly
concerned about their medical privacy.
And so I can't, you know, use AI yet to
to take the medical records and condense
them into, you know, the quick
summaries. Um,
>> but those programs I'm sure are coming
where, you know, you have there's
there's privacy and security and all of
the things. They probably exist already.
I'm just not using them yet to make that
part feasible. Um, I am sure that you
know if you are Goldman Sachs and you
hire a big law firm and they've been
doing your your deals or your IPOs such
as they exist right now and you don't
want the the law firm training on your
documents to go use them in in other
deals, I'm sure this is an an issue. On
the other hand, you know, it might
reduce your legal costs by by half and
you can fight about that. And so, you
know, what they're willing to do, I
don't I don't know. Let's extend forth
some of these economic questions because
allowing the senior partners to acrue
more value by not needing to allocate as
many hours to the junior lawyers that
makes total sense for this specific
generation, right? Because okay, some
people are lucky enough to have made
partner before AI and then other people
are going to be in this situation which
their value maybe uh you know could be
done more cheaply or for a few hours but
10 years from now whatever a lot of
those partners are going to be retired.
etc. Like what is the downstream
consequence of your view in your view of
some of these shifts that are happen
right now because you know eventually
all the partners you know eventually
everyone's going to die and there's
going to be new like where does this go
like what's the next what are the
consequences
>> so I think that uh the skills that will
be valued in lawyers are just going to
change a lot the interpersonal skills of
client management walking your client
through the risks that they have they're
nervous they're getting sued. These are
bet the company litigations. The lawyers
who can make them feel safe and let them
understand what's happening to them and
what their odds are. Those sorts of
things. The lawyers who are great at
taking depositions and the lawyers who
are great at oral argument, those skills
are going to go up and up, I think, in
skill uh in in value. and the scale of
legal research or just being great at
writing a brief. I do think that that's
going to get maybe not the 99th
percentile brief writing, the people who
are going to the Supreme Court and who
are just truly excellent. Maybe that
will take time, but the sort of grunt
work, you know, solid junior associate,
mid-level associate, senior associate
who are writing the briefs that I I
question whether that skill will have
the same value. But there's a lot of
interpersonal
skill that matters a lot for for being a
lawyer and that's going to go up in
value.
>> Now the question with any new technology
is does it cuz one argument is clear
okay there's an x amount of demand for
legal services and there's an x amount
of people who supply them and maybe you
you save you save some money. Could the
market for legal services grow such that
if capacity to do legal research and
some of this other stuff gets cheaper
that there are more areas it's like oh
you know what maybe this is worth filing
a lawsuit everywhere. This was actually
going to be my my question as well but
particularly for poor plaintiffs who
normally can't afford a lawyer. What did
they call them? In
>> indigent and they sometimes will file
prosay on their own behalf
>> or maybe more lawyers like you take on
cases take other cases that in five
years ago the economics wouldn't have
made sense but today the economics made
sense like could it just be you know
Jevans paradox but for law. I think
that's absolutely going to happen. You
know I can just sort of walk through the
economics of one of my cases. you know,
somebody comes in and they say they they
had a false arrest case against the the
NYPD and they spent, let's say, 5 hours
in custody. We sort of know what the
expected value of that case is. You
know, you're doing what chance are you
do you have to win and what are the
damages you are going to get when you
win and I can sort of and then I I a
contingency fee typically a third in in
New York. And you can sort of do that
math of the expected value of the case
and then think about how many hours it's
going to take to to win that case or get
to a settlement.
>> And if I'm using AI to make myself more
productive in my research, the number of
hours that I'm expecting to put into
that case goes down. Suddenly my hurdle
rate of for, you know, what it takes to
to take on that case has gone down and I
can take on more cases for the same
number of hours.
>> And so that I definitely think is
coming. It's also the case that right
and because of that because lawyers have
to think in that term of you know how
much is it going to cost me to do this
case in terms of labor there are a lot
of cases brought prosay uh in in the
court system right now I think it's like
20 25% of cases are from prosay
litigants
>> these are the people represent
themselves
>> who represent themselves because they
can't afford a lawyer or you know my
cases are contingency people are paying
out of pocket but so I can't afford to
take on the case because the damages
aren't potentially high enough that's
how I have to sort of think about it.
And so I think there's going to be a lot
more representation of those people.
It's also the case probably that prosay
lawyers are going to start getting
better that you know uh you said you
were doing research on your own you know
with 03. It's possible that you know if
if it was just a little dispute with
somebody over some amount of money you
might think I can do this myself rather
than trying to go find a lawyer. And so,
you know, but for legal aid, for people
who are criminal defense attorneys at
legal aid, those attorneys, I think, are
about to go on because of how overworked
they are and underpaid they are, they
they might get a lot more efficient and
be able to represent a lot more people.
>> Tracy, I'm imagining a lot of very
annoyed judges by like prosay
>> frivolous lawsuit. No, I mean, no, I
mean like someone who did their own
research cuz nothing's more annoying
than someone who does their own research
and then they're like they're like
citing all these cases that they learned
about yesterday and stuff like that.
Like it just seems like you have a high
potential for obnoxious obnoxious people
who think they know.
>> No, no, no. You're democratizing case
law. That's what I say.
>> I want to be clear. They're already
getting that. The the judges are getting
a lot of it. especi pro, you know,
prosay prisoners who get to spend a lot
of time
>> in the legal librarian and are filing
cases and some of them are are excellent
and and but sometimes they're they're
not so good. I clerked for a federal
judge and and we saw a lot of this
litigation, a lot of it prosay. I don't
know that they're, you know, providing
AI access in in prisons unfortunately uh
in terms of litigation, but I I think I
actually think there are going to be a
lot of annoyed judges because there's
going this is going to happen. It also
might be the case that it uh raises the
floor of
>> you see a lot of bad legal writing even
from lawyers and and I could see it
getting it actually getting a little bit
easier to be a to be a judge and a
clerk.
>> If everything becomes more
volumeoriented or the business model
becomes more about the volume rather
than the billable hours. Do you see a
situation where I guess the emphasis on
sourcing deals in corporate law or
sourcing cases um in plaintiff
>> does that become more important like
that's the skill set that you actually
need that sort of like matchmaker
process? I think that there's yes I
think f look finding finding the deals
making the the economics of the of the
relationship work is going to go up a
lot in value you know I think it's
already the case you you all see legal
advertisements for personal injury
lawyers everywhere all the time
>> pain law yo
>> it's so I mean legal search terms on on
Google are are the most expensive uh
cost per click I mean these thousands of
dollars for cost per click. Case
acquisition, I think, is might go up
even more because if you can just get
the case in
you're working less on the case, but
you're still getting your third
contingency fee, you might be willing to
pay even more and more to just generate
this volume. I mean, already mills
exist. They call them, you know,
plaintiffs mills. People who are doing,
you know, 600 cases per, you know, every
couple attorneys or something like that.
the economics of that and just acquiring
the case are going to go I think way way
up until maybe they start competing on
price because they can do so much more
volume.
>> I want to talk about advertising. Hey,
have you Tracy Orel have either of you
heard the radio ads for Top Dog Law?
>> Yes.
>> Um I have not.
>> You every listener go to YouTube and
just type top dog law ad. They're the
most incredible, aren't they, Joel? Like
they're really incredible.
>> Yes. like just go search right now or
when the episode and listen to some of
these um ads. Do you buy ads on Google?
>> I I've done some Google ad campaigns. I
haven't really um
>> This is actually another topic we're
interested in.
>> But a lot of I mean a lot of plaintiff
side civil rights lawyers are are buying
space. It's just not how I've chosen to
compete. I do more referrals from
defense lawyers, that sort of thing. But
I mean I I actually have started to
think about right we we know this stuff
about young people are starting to use
chat GBT and other services as their
sort of portal to the internet. They're
using it for search
>> and so right all of these law firms
spend a lot on SEO. Uh but what is SEO
in a generative AI world is sort of an
interesting question. What are people
what are the the engines turning up in
terms of search terms? What do you have
to have on your website in order to get
people to find you through GPT rather
than Google?
>> Is Lexus Nexus doing anything with AI?
>> They are. I have not really used their
AI products. Lexus and I know Weslaw is
doing the same. I'm I use Lexus. I
assume Bloomberg Law, which is also is
doing something similar, but right now
the the models that that they're using
just aren't as good as 03. is basically
and so if you're still calling to a four
era GPT or or similar from from claude
or whatever that sort of quality I just
don't think that they're getting good
enough research. I think it really was
whatever that step change was to to 03's
level I think has uh made the research
so much better that I just use it and
then I'll go look at all the cases on
Lexus. the difference in what you can
actually learn from 40 or whatever 40 I
don't the naming convention versus 03 it
really is a very big deal and I think
like a lot of people formed impressions
pre3 impressions what other tools are
out there that are interesting or that
come across your world whether it's like
I mean yeah we've been talking a lot
about 03 and you mentioned that other
one brief something is there anything
else out there that's exciting or
interesting or promising
>> there's one I looked at that looked
promising thing uh it's like Iudis or IQ
IQ ID something like that and they
looked pretty interesting in terms of
sort of being full Sweden wraparound
there's Harvey AI but they're really
focused on on big law firms but I know
that they're working with a lot of big
firms but you know the technology you
know for me that looks promising would
be people where I can safely upload
medical records and get instead of
trolling through 200 300 pages just like
what was each progress note what did it
say what's the injury, that sort of
thing. And and I think that's coming.
There are I think it's I maybe something
from case text or that summarizes
depositions. And of course, that's
another thing where I've tried to use it
in the past and it wasn't very good. I
think just the context windows that they
were able to use haven't been
sufficiently large, but I think with
with rag and with more with better
models, I think that will get better and
better. you know, like the this is the
Ben Thompson line of this is the worst
they're ever going to be. Yeah. Is is
something that I'm constantly trying to
think about because I've used these
these products in the past or tested
them and they haven't been very
impressive. But I also used 40 and
wasn't very impressed that it's legal
research and have seen that that jump.
And so I assume in terms of taking
depositions and and getting concise
summaries of the most important facts
for your case, that's going to get a lot
better. I just think the products aren't
there yet. And maybe because the API
calls for the LLMs just aren't to their
newest models yet or it's too expensive,
but I assume that's getting cheaper
every, you know, Moore's law still
applies.
>> If you had to bet, if you had to put
actual money on this question, would you
say there will be more or less lawyers
say 10 years from now?
>> Uh, as a percentage of the population.
>> Yeah, that's a great question.
>> Thank you for the caveat, J. That's
important.
>> And I hadn't I hadn't thought about this
one. I would I would bet on fewer, but
not that much. I would say I I I don't
think this is, you know, um uh going to
wipe out lawyers. I think fewer and what
they do will change a lot. Could you
imagine? You know, tech people are
obsessed with the mythical who will be
the first person to have a billion
dollar startup with no employees. Could
that be like, okay, you have you hung a
shingle out, I think is a phrase that
sometimes people use. Could you imagine
a mega firm with one employee?
>> I could imagine
>> a mega lawyer with,
>> you know, so you you right you you think
of Seleno, Seleno and Barnes, those
sorts of firms, these big big plaintiffs
law firms. I think
>> lawyers that they have
>> that I actually don't know, but it's a
lot and it's all across the country. But
so much of what they do is make the
discovery demand, respond to the
demands, do the the get the medical
records, send out a settlement demand
letter, negotiate with the opposing
council for or the carrier from the
insurer. You know, my client has a a
torn rotator cuff and a torn meniscus or
something like that from this car
accident and they have an exact expected
value of the case and it's just
negotiating that. And I think they could
go from, you know, let's say a hundred
cases per attorney to a thousand or to
2,000 because they could set up an
automated workflow a lot easier, I
think. And so, you know, that person
could could start making 50 million or
100 million a year per one lawyer than
than the, you know, already 5 million
that they're making or something like
that. These top firms.
>> One last little question. I mentioned
you're a poker player. In poker, you
know, big thing has been the emergence
of solvers. and you go back and you like
look at the did you play it very well
but it's all about what you kind of what
you described of like
>> you're calculate your EV right and did
you play it right and you don't always
win and you may have calculated EV right
and you took on the case but you don't
get the outcome how scientific is that
the uh calculating Eevee on a given case
and has that is there technology that's
working on that
>> so it's not very scientific at all you
know it's uh you can assess liability I
think pretty reasonably. Is this going
to be something where we're definitely
going to win? You know, the personal
injury uh car accident lawyers who say,
you know, the police report says this
person made an illegal left turn,
perfect liability. I'm going to win
instantly and then you're just
evaluating the damages. One thing I've
actually explored is is looking into
whether LLMs can estimate the damages
based on the injuries that you describe.
Pretty well. go through the case law
where there's cases, this is called uh
remittitor cases where you you might
hear like, oh, this person got a $100
million for their, you know, hot coffee
or whatever, you know, these sort of
classic cases and a judge will knock it
down. They'll say this case with this
injury is only worth this much. But you
could take all that language and start
to estimate, you know, quantify uh
because words are numbers with with
these programs. You could start to
quantify what what are the injuries
worth in the in the case law and then
multiply that by. So I think that sort
of thing is going to get a lot more
scientific and they're going to use it
on the carrier side. So Geico is going
to be able to say, you know, you've
described these injuries. we have a
database of a thousand cases just like
this and this was what we you know and
then you could haggle oh well this is a
great plaintiff or something like that
and um they're super sympathetic and you
know have that negotiation but I think
that process of evaluating the exact
value of a of an injury or or of a case
is going to get a lot uh more scientific
and facilitate settlements to to happen
quicker. I imagine AI might be
especially useful in class action
lawsuits as well where you're dealing
with like finding thousands of people
potentially to attach to a case and then
actually contacting them and getting
information from them.
>> I that that seems reasonable to me.
Also, in the class action cases, you
just got a volume of of data that you
have to do discovery on, but it it
hadn't occurred to me. But, you know, I
do know that sometimes class actions
start because somebody finds a Reddit
thread and they see on Reddit, you know,
people all the people are all
complaining about this same issue with
this product or something like that and
the the lawyers, you know, reach out to
them. And so, it is entirely possible. I
could I could see that that
>> that's another thing where you could
have AI just trolling the internet for
possible cases.
>> I I I think so. Or, you know, what are
people posting about on on Twitter? What
are they all getting harmed by? I don't
know. So, it's it seems entirely
plausible.
>> Since you mentioned it, I just want to
say you mentioned illegal lefts and
Tracy and listeners,
I had a issue last year where I I'm not
going to get into it, but it involved
taking an illegal left turn.
>> Joe's a criminal.
>> I'm not. But thank And
>> were you found innocent?
I am not a criminal thanks to a uh
referral that our guest here Joel helped
make for me. I'm not going to say we're
not going to talk anymore about the
case. It was super annoying. I'm not
going to say anything more, but I just
want to I'm it's my disclosure for this
episode. So Joel Wortheheimer, thank you
so much for coming on Oddlo. That was
fantastic.
>> Thank you for having me.
[Music]
Tracy, before we talk about conclusions,
I must press upon listeners again to
search for top dog law firm ads. In
fact, after we do this episode, we walk
back to our desk. Tracy, I'm going to
insist that you watch a few of them.
>> I love that your priority for this
episode. The one thing you must get out
of this episode is listening to Top Dog
app.
>> No, I swear I was driving. I was in a
Uber home several months ago and this ad
came on the radio and it was like
nothing I had ever heard in my entire
life. Nothing will prepare you for this
this law firm's ads. Anyway, we could
talk about
>> I am very intrigued.
>> All right. Well, that was a fantastic
conversation. One thing I am wondering
is, you know, in the US there there's a
lot of talk about an overly uh latigious
society and I kind of wonder if AI is
potentially just going to make it worse.
It sounds very plausible to me that it
it will make it worse or better or
worse, but I think like you know it does
my guess is that there's going to be
some sort of you know Jeff's paradox
thing where like some existing labor
will get really cheap or maybe
completely unnecessary and then other
you know the optimistic version is that
defendants or people without a lot of
money get better quality representation.
I get, you know, it feels like it's not
going to dis, it's gonna probably have
very big distributional and qualitative
shifts on the industry.
>> Yeah. And this is the thing I'm also
wondering. So, okay, junior associates,
maybe they h they're doing less work,
maybe they're slightly happier, but I
guess the idea that more of the value
just accrs to the partners at a time
when it's harder to become partner, uh,
that seems to be the downside if you're
going into the legal profession, right?
>> Yeah. No, totally. like it feels like
we're at this moment and this applies to
a lot of actually AI economics questions
and we should definitely do more on them
where people uh imagine or people maybe
even rightly surmise that you know
there'll be a lot of benefits for you
know existing holders of wealth or
companies could do layoffs right
>> and I don't know the degree to that
which is really happening but at least
in theory and there's going to be firing
of junior workers
But that's like a temporary condition
because you know first of all like okay
a company saves a bunch of money by
firing what eventually becomes
characterized as grunt work. Well what
do they spend that money on right
because that's savings and so does that
do they invest it? Does that turn into
consumption for the partners? Like there
are a lot of you know people's like oh
it's going to be mass layoffs but I
never find these questions very
satisfying because the money doesn't
disappear. It's someone's savings and
someone's savings either becomes
someone's consumption or someone's
investment and anyone's consumption or
investment becomes someone else's
income. So therefore, you know, thinking
through some of these next level things
I think is really important and AI
clearly seems like ground zero and I do
think 03 is really good and everyone no
seriously everyone needs to check it out
and like update their views if they
haven't yet on the quality of the
research you can do. Um, it does sound
like it's maybe solved the hallucination
problem that was that everyone was
making fun of earlier.
>> Yeah, I mean like they're still there
for sure, but because you can actually
find links to documents and stuff like
that, the speed with which you can get
up to speed on anything is very
impressive.
>> All right, I'm going to go test it.
Shall we leave it there?
>> Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Jill Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest on
Blue Sky. Joel Worerheimer. He's at
worthwhile. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Armed Dashel Bennett
at Dashbot and Kalebrooks at Kalebrooks.
For more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all of these topics 24/7 in our Discord.
We even have an AI channel on there.
>> And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we talk about the impact of AI on
various professions, then please leave
us a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
adree. All you need to do is find the
Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcast and
follow the instructions there. Thanks
for listening.
[Music]